---
layout: page
---

IMANI COOPER

<Imanico@umich.edu>

*Education*

**University of Michigan-** Ann Arbor

PhD. Candidate of Comparative Literature

**Research Interest:** Visual culture, Performance studies, New Media &
Technology, Political Economy, African diaspora – Anglophone,
Francophone, Hispanophone, Lusophone-

**City College of New York-** New York, NY

B.A Honors English, \[Minor: French\] May 2015

-   Magna Cum Laude

-   Phi Beta Kappa

**TEACHING EXPERIENCE **

**École pour l'informatique et les nouvelles technologies (Epitech) **
Paris, France

English Instructor- Developed syllabus and overall course structure;

Taught university level students conversational English, grammar,
comprehension, and reading skills

Babylangues: Cours d’anglais pour bébé et enfant  English Instructor-
Guided children (ages 3-9) in English as a second Sept 2013-Jan 2014

language through conversational methods.

**Industry Experience **

**Backstreet Gallery** New Rochelle, NY Jan 2012-May 2015

**Ass. Manager:** Organized outgoing social media ads about upcoming
Gallery events;

Reviewed seasonal gallery catalogs; edited artist statements for
displays; coordinated imported and exported material goods, custom
framer, artists

**Councilman Ivar Hyden of New Rochelle** New Rochelle, NY Sept. 2011-
Jan 2012

**Intern**: Moderated all outgoing Campaign literature; Briefed
speeches; edited press releases

**Research Experience **

**Stanford University** Palo Alto, CA June 2014- August 2014

Conducted a comparative literary analysis between Congolese-French
writer Alain Mabanckou

And African-American writer James Baldwin concerning shifting
representations of Afro hyphenated identities in Paris

**Mission Interuniversitaire de Coordination Échanges Franco-Américains
(MICEFA) **

Paris, France August 2013 – January 2014

(Study abroad) Constructed preliminary field work on Chateau d’Eau and
Chateau Rouge predominantly Afro quartiers in Paris in comparison to
Harlem, NY to investigate the marketing strategies of “Africa” to
tourist

University of North Carolina Chapel Hill Chapel Hill, NC –

Investigated the complete works of Phillis Wheatley (1753-1784) in
dialogue with early modern black internationalism and 18^th^ century
notions on marketing “free persons of color” using reception theory and
close reading methods

**Conferences **

**Human: Race| Reconceptionalizing the Human in Difficult times **

Toronto, ON, Canada April 21- 23 2016

The Art of Performing Human: The aesthetics of the body in Black Lives
Mater

**New York African Studies Association** Albany, NY April 2-3 2015

From Baldwin’s “Dark Room” to Mabanckou’s Black Bazaar (2009): The
Kinetics of the African DiasporaApril

**Mellon Mays annual regional conference** New York, NY April 11 2014

Can the Hyphen Speak? A Theoretical Reading of the Postcolonial Identity
in Alain Mabanckou’s *Black Bazaar* (2009)

**Grants and Awards **

Rackham Merit Fellowship 2015-present (U of M)

Sydney and Helen Jacoff grant for Graduate Study 2015 (City College)

Stark Award for Essay in Literature 2015 (City College)

Kaye Scholarship 2013- 2015 (City College)

Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellow 2013-2015 (City College)

Leon Levy Scholar 2012- 2015 (City College)

**Languages:** English (native), French (advance), Spanish
(Intermediate) Portuguese (Intermediate)
